# Your Title should go in the appropriate place in `index.html`, not here! Title is itself set only in the `<head>` element


<div class="sidepanel">
              <!-- This is the div where all the popcorn action will hapen -->
              <div id="popcorn-container">
              </div>
            </div>


On this page, you will find a short clip from the Opie Collection of Children's Songs. Recorded between 1960s-1980, the Opie Collection includes recordings of interviews with children from America and England in which the children sing playground songs and talk about them. This essay will explore three themes which are suggested by the clip: sexuality and gender, change and adaptability, and the culture of patronization of children by adults.
## Sexuality and Gender
  In the first song the girls sing, they say <a href="#" onclick="javascript:seek(20)"> “There’s a boy and a girl in a tippy canoe...He said [to her] you’d better kiss me or get out and swim.”</a> Here, <a href="#" onclick="javascript:seek(23)"> "when the moon is shining all around”</a> creating a romantic atmosphere, a clear sexual advance is made on the girl. But this is a threatening advance: if the girl denies the boy, she has to <a href="#" onclick="javascript:seek(49)">“get out and swim.” </a> The boy is not condemned in the song—in fact, his behaviour is normalized. The girl, however, <a href="#" onclick="javascript:seek(37)">“know[s] what to do in a tippy canoe,” </a> knows even though the song has not yet told her—she must “get out and swim.” The song speaks to a culture, suggested by the clip, of female responsibility for any sexual encounters. The boy is able to make a sexual threat—“you’d better kiss me or get out and swim”—while the burden is on the female to extract herself from a situation she does not consent to; moreover, the implied moral action is not to give in to sexual advances—“you know what to do”— regardless of what the girl might actually want in a given situation. Indeed, the final lyrics are quite gendered. They not only put the burden on the girl to protect herself in a sexually threatening situation, but assume that the singers and listeners of the song—those participating in the game—are girls: “so *you* know what to do.” By contrast, the modern-day version includes the <a href="#" onclick="javascript:seek(1:15)">line about kissing or swimming</a>, but <a href="#" onclick="javascript:seek(1:19)">does not give a suggestion</a> for what to do in the situation.

  In the second song, there is again an engagement with sexuality and gender. Again, there is the assumption that the participants in the game are female: <a href="#" onclick="javascript:seek(3:00)">“*I* am a pretty little dutch girl</a>…<a href="#" onclick="javascript:seek(3:07)">And all the boys on the baseball team go crazy over *me me me*.”</a> Here, the singers/players are all identified with a female, specifically a “little…girl.” This Dutch girl, the song says, is <a href="#" onclick="javascript:seek(3:03)">“as pretty as can be”</a> —so much so, that “all the boys on the baseball team go crazy over [her].” Beauty, even among young girls, is thus associated with popularity and with being sexually appealing to men, and the participants in the song are invited to see themselves as the "pretty little Dutch girl" who is popular because of her sexuality.

## Change and Adaptability
In the accompanying video to the clip, you can see that the lyrics for both songs changed over time. In some cases, the changes were lyrically very different, but content-wise not as much— such as changing the line “all the boys on the baseball team” to “all the boys around the block” <a href="#" onclick="javascript:seek(3:41)">[ref].</a> In such cases, there seems to have been an adaptation of a line to be more suitable for the children singing it. The reference to a “baseball team” might not be meaningful to children in areas where baseball is not a common sport, for example, while “the block” is similarly a phrase which is not used uniformly across the English-speaking world.  Similarly, the Dutch girl’s boyfriend can be described in different ways, <a href="#" onclick="javascript:seek(3:54)">but in all of them, he remains unattractive.</a>

Sometimes, the lyrics undergo minor changes, but their meaning changes significantly. For the canoe song, for example, the 2013 version is devoid of the sexual lyrics found in the version sung in the clip. Similarly, one assumes that the version sung by the children in the clip is also a variation upon the original, as there are several logical inconsistencies and tense changes in the song, for example at the strange second line at <a href="#" onclick="javascript:seek(27)">0:27</a> or when the tense changes from present to past from <a href="#" onclick="javascript:seek(20)">0:20 </a> to <a href="#" onclick="javascript:seek(27)">0:27. </a> Again, this demonstrates the adaptability of the song: the children have changed the lyrics, whether deliberately or otherwise, and it seems these very inconsistencies are part of the song’s enjoyability—the girl considers the term “tippy canoe” perfectly valid and for her, the song is about a canoe that can easily tip over, which her excited voice suggests is part of the fun <a href="#" onclick="javascript:seek(1:30)">[1:30-1:52]</a>. Moreover, the canoe song is able to be sung with both actions and as a clapping game, and so becomes a dynamic song which can be adapted to the desires of every unique group of participants. Indeed, the combination of such actions with the ability of the songs to lend themselves to a less-grammatical and more “childish” lyrical form makes them endlessly adaptable for children, who are not passive singers of a set song but active participants in a song-and-game.


## The Culture of Patronization
In the clip, there are several instances of the adult interviewer treating the children as less important than adults, and therefore able to be talked down to. At <a href="#" onclick="javascript:seek(2:04)">2:04</a>, for example, the girl being interviewed excitedly begins a story she “think[s] you’re [the interviewer] going to laugh at.” Almost immediately, however, she is cut off by the interviewer <a href="#" onclick="javascript:seek(75)">[2:13]</a>. Similarly, when the interviewer asks about how the girl came to learn the song, she talks about the “pack holiday” she took, and mentions a “snowy owl”<a href="#" onclick="javascript:seek(75)"> [1:52-2:10].</a> The interviewer soon after says insistently, <a href="#" onclick="javascript:seek(2:22)">“Andwho was singing the song? You didn't learn it from the brown owl.”</a> Not only is this belittling—her voice and words suggest that the topic of owls is both beside the point and childish enough to be gently mocked—but the interviewer shows a disregard for the actual words the girl she is interviewing spoke, even though they were spoken only moments ago. And, near the end of the clip, after the interviewer has gotten a recording of the children singing a song that she wishes them to sing—and which, it seems, she brought along with her—she says that she <a href="#" onclick="javascript:seek(4:03)">“*It's the reason I came down [here]*, to get that.”</a> This suggests she cares less about recording what the children are interested than in getting them to sing a song which is of interest to *her*. Despite the collection being about children and children's songs, then, the clip suggests that there was a patronization of children by their adult interviewers, who saw them as "childish" and who are easily directed to do what the interviewer wants or talk about topics the interviewer wants them to talk about.
